You might remember that two lectures ago when we have ran the peach bee artisan migrate to refresh command
it to recreate it.
The whole structure of our database so it reran all the migrations again.
But the side effect of running this is that we've lost all the data that we have added manually to our
application database so there is no blog posts no comments and no users.
Fortunately there is a comment inside Lara that you can run to load some fake generated data into your
application database.
So this command is Peach Pit artisan D.B. seed so it says that it has completed successfully but it
actually haven't done anything because we have to create those seedier seeders manually.
So inside the database folder there is the seats folder that has only one class in their database cedar
and that's are kind of main entry point of this cedar process.
It starts with this database Cedar Run method inside this database.
Cedar Run method you can either manually insert some records into the database or use what we already
have which are the model factories we happen to have the model factories for every possible model of
our application.
But before we will use the model factories let's first try to insert some records manually so you will
see what I mean by inserting them and manually so to insert our record we will use the DP for sale.
So we have to import it from the Illuminate Support for seeds.
So that's the class name and it has some static methods so we can use D.B. the static method table to
specify on which table we'll be working on and we will be working on users and then it has another method
called insert and this is very simple you will use an array where key of the array element is the column
name and the value is the value you you'd like to insert.
So to make it a little bit easier for us not to write too much code we can copy the array from the user
factory so paste it inside this Insert method code.
Don't forget the semicolon.
Of course we do not have access to faker here so we'll have to come up with some user name and with
some email so you can see that we are just inserting start static data basically here we'll have to
write our specific code to this table insert for each individual record we would like to insert.
So let's try.
Lara although the test as an email and now inside the terminal let's around peach P2P artisan D.B. seed.
So that's the command that we run this database seeder and load the data to the database so you can
see it has completed successfully and now let's refresh the database and you can see that we have a
user inserted so everything else is empty.
We still do not have blog posts and comments and there is just one user.
Now what will happen if you will write this round this common comment again is will actually get an
error because it doesn't clear that data before rerunning this database cedar.
It just adds to the existing data.
So that's why we cannot run it again successfully because we already have a user by this e-mail inside
the database table.
So if you would like to refresh the whole database and also run the cedar you can run the command that
we already know.
So let's first clear the terminal and the command is beauty be artisan migrate refresh.
You can remember that it recreates the whole database schema using migrations but you can add additional
modifier called seed so you can see migrations were run.
And also it has added the data the only record that we are actually inserting right now the user with
the name John Doe so we can run this subsequently because this recreate the database.
So let's see if we can run it again.
It just recreates that database and inserts inserts.
This one single record.
So those are the basics of running a cedar in the next lecture.
We will see how we can use our model factories to insert a lot of records to our database at once using
database seeders and model factories.